# _Arabic number to a Roman numeral_
This program will convert Arabic number to Roman numeral ranging between 1 and 3999.

## _How to run the Converter:_

### _Local_
1 - Install `python 3.9`

2 - Create virtual environment (`venv`)

3 - Install packages from requirement.txt  `pip install -r requirements.txt ` 

4 - Make sure test file path is properly configured in `constant.py` 

5 - Run python script `main.py` 

6 - For test run python script `main_test.py`
### _Docker_

1 - Locate `Dockerfile` 

2 - Make sure requirement.txt exists else generate it by `pip freeze > requirements.txt`

3 - Build docker image: `docker build -t romanconverterdocker .`

4 - Run docker image: `docker run romanconverterdocker`


# _Logic_

Process starts with the validation of input using method `validate_input` then call method
 `get_result`, which convert Arabic number to Roman Numeral, 
it first split the input in to unit, ten, hundred and 
thousand based on length of input. After split it call method `arabic_to_roman_converter`,
in which conversion logic is implemented based on _subtractive notation_. Unit, ten, hundred and thousand sends separately
in to this method with a flag which distinguish the places either its unit, ten, hundred
and thousand. Based on _subtractive notation_ it calculate its Roman form.

# _Test_

One test is also included which is not basically unit test but sort of verifier. 
One test file `test_data.csv` is also included in the project which contains all Roman 
numeral with their Arabic representation. This test compare the output generated by 
method `arabic_to_roman_converter` with the expected output exist in test file, it 
matches all result between 1 and 3999. This file is downloaded from https://oeis.org/A006968
 the file link is https://oeis.org/A006968/a006968.txt and then converted to csv.  